[SRVCOM-2510] Configuring request log settings (#88783)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-config-request-log.adoc

You can configure request logging for your service in the `observability` section of your `KnativeServing` custom resource (CR).

You can use the following keys and values:

[cols=3*,options="header"]
|===
|Key
|Unit
|Description

|`logging.enable-request-log`
|Boolean (`true` or `false`)
|If set `true`, the request logging will be enabled.

|`logging.enable-probe-request-log``
|Boolean (`true` or `false`)
|If set `true`, this enables queue proxy writing request logs for probe requests to stdout. It uses the template specified in `logging.request-log-template`.

|`logging.request-log-template`
|Go `text/template` string
|Determines the shape of the request logs. Keep this as a single line as multiple lines may split the request logs into multiple records.
|===

.Procedure

* Configure request logging for your service by modifying your `KnativeServing` CR `observability` section.
+
.KnativeServing CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.knative.dev/v1beta1
kind: KnativeServing
metadata:
  name: knative-serving
  namespace: knative-serving
spec:
  config:
    observability:
        logging.enable-request-log: true
        logging.enable-probe-request-log: true

>         logging.request-log-template:

Reviewer: see 

https://github.com/openshift-knative/serving/blob/release-v1.16/openshift/release/artifacts/serving-core.yaml#L8576-L8607

>         logging.request-log-template:

Reviewer: It would probably be helpful to include those bits into this document as well.

You can't create a custom request-log-template without having the information about the structure of Request, Response and Revision.

>         logging.request-log-template:

Author: Thank you, I've included the Request, Response and Revision spec.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * serverless/observability/serverless-config-log-settings.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="serverless-config-request-log_{context}"]
= Configuring request log settings for Serving

You can configure request logging for your service in the `observability` section of your `KnativeServing` custom resource (CR).

You can use the following keys and values:

[cols=3*,options="header"]
|===
|Key
|Unit
|Description

|`logging.enable-request-log`
|Boolean (`true` or `false`)
|Set to `true` to enable request logging.

|`logging.enable-probe-request-log`
|Boolean (`true` or `false`)

> |If set `true`, this enables queue proxy writing request logs for probe requests to stdout. It uses the template specified in `logging.request-log-template`.

Reviewer 2: The first sentence was a little confusing to me. Would this work? (Also I made it so that it has a similar structure to the first description):
```suggestion
|Set to `true` to enable the queue proxy to log probe requests to stdout. It uses the template specified in `logging.request-log-template`.
```

|`logging.request-log-template`
|Go `text/template` string

> |Determines the shape of the request logs. Use a single line to prevent logs from being split into multiple records..

Reviewer 2: To get rid in incomplete sentence to be more alike the other descriptions in this table + removing the extra dot at the end:
```suggestion
|Determine the shape of the request logs. Use a single line to prevent logs from being split into multiple records.
```

|===

Additionally, the `logging.request-log-template` key includes the following functions:

* `Request` is an `http.Request` representing an HTTP request received by the server.
* `Response` represents the HTTP response and includes the following fields:
** `Code` is the HTTP status code. 
** `Size` is the response size in bytes.
** `Latency`is the response latency in seconds.
* `Revision` contains revision details and includes the following fields: 
** `Name` is the name of the revision.
** `Namespace` is namespace of the revision.
** `Service` is the name of the service.
** `Configuration` is the name of the configuration.
** `PodName` is the name of the pod hosting the revision.
** `PodIP` is the IP address of the hosting pod.

> .Procedure

Reviewer 2: Just double-checking if there are any prerequisites.

* Configure request logging for your service by modifying your `KnativeServing` CR `observability` section:
+
.KnativeServing CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.knative.dev/v1beta1
kind: KnativeServing
metadata:
  name: knative-serving

>   namespace: knative-serving
> spec:

Reviewer 2: Based on the OpenShift style guide: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#signs-and-symbols-in-code-blocks
to use ellipsis for incomplete yaml examples:
```suggestion
  namespace: knative-serving
# ...
spec:
```

  config:
    observability:
        logging.enable-request-log: true
        logging.enable-probe-request-log: true
        logging.request-log-template: '{"httpRequest": {"requestMethod": "{{.Request.Method}}", "requestUrl": "{{js .Request.RequestURI}}", "requestSize": "{{.Request.ContentLength}}", "status": {{.Response.Code}}, "responseSize": "{{.Response.Size}}", "userAgent": "{{js .Request.UserAgent}}", "remoteIp": "{{js .Request.RemoteAddr}}", "serverIp": "{{.Revision.PodIP}}", "referer": "{{js .Request.Referer}}", "latency": "{{.Response.Latency}}s", "protocol": "{{.Request.Proto}}"}, "traceId": "{{index .Request.Header "X-B3-Traceid"}}"}'

> ----

Reviewer 2: Based on the OpenShift style guide: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#signs-and-symbols-in-code-blocks
to use ellipsis for incomplete yaml examples:
```suggestion
# ...
----
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * serverless/observability/serverless-config-log-settings.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="serverless-config-request-log_{context}"]

> = Configuring request log settings for Serving

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
= Configuring request log settings for service
```

I think it's a typo - should it be service?

> = Configuring request log settings for Serving

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
= Configuring request log settings for service
```

- I think it's a typo - should it be service? in either cases, consider using lowercase.

You can configure request logging for your service in the `observability` field of your `KnativeServing` custom resource (CR).

You can use the following parameters:

> [cols=3*,options="header"]

Reviewer 3: We usually put tables and parameter list in the reference module. I think it'd be good if this table and the `logging.request-log-template` parameter list can be put in its own reference module and then you can mention that module in the additional resources. What do you think?

Author: I'm not sure about placing it in additional resources since the RFE is specifically about having this info in one place. If it would be better to put it in a separate reference module (and if I understand you correctly), I can add the table and the list as a reference module titled `Request Log Settings` just above this procedure.

|Set to `true` to enable the queue proxy to log probe requests to stdout. It uses the template specified in `logging.request-log-template`.

|`logging.request-log-template`
|Go `text/template` string
|Determine the shape of the request logs. Use a single line to prevent logs from being split into multiple records.
|===

The `logging.request-log-template` parameter includes the following functions:

* `Request` is an `http.Request` representing an HTTP request received by the server.
* `Response` represents the HTTP response and includes the following fields:
** `Code` is the HTTP status code. 
** `Size` is the response size in bytes.
** `Latency` is the response latency in seconds.
* `Revision` contains revision details and includes the following fields: 
** `Name` is the name of the revision.
** `Namespace` is the namespace of the revision.
** `Service` is the name of the service.
** `Configuration` is the name of the configuration.
** `PodName` is the name of the pod hosting the revision.
** `PodIP` is the IP address of the hosting pod.

.Procedure

* Configure request logging for your service by modifying the `observability` field in your `KnativeServing` CR:
+

> .Example KnativeServing CR

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Example `KnativeServing` CR
```
